Une citation mémorable du film Proof
####################################
:date: 2008-09-10 17:21
:tags: maths

Avant que quiconque ne m'envoie des messages haineux, je tiens à dire
que je n'ai pas aimé ce film. La performances des acteurs est mauvaise,
l'histoire, peu enivrante. Certaines personnes ont comparé ce film à *A
Beautiful Mind*, ce que je n'arrive pas à comprendre. Outre le fait que
les deux films parlent de mathématiciens un peu cinglés, il n'y a rien
en commun entre eux : un est un chef-d'oeuvre, l'autre est un film dont
on aurait pu se passer.
Les seuls points positifs de *Proof* sont la présence, toujours
réjouissante, de Anthony Hopkins (ou devrais-je dire Sir Anthony
Hopkins) dont la performance est merveilleuse, et cette citation du
mathématicien fou :
*Let X equal the quantity of all quantities of X. Let X equal the cold.
It is cold in December. The months of cold equal November through
February. There are four months of cold, and four of heat, leaving four
months of indeterminate temperature. In February it snows. In March the
Lake is a lake of ice. In September the students come back and the
bookstores are full. Let X equal the month of full bookstores. The
number of books approaches infinity as the number of months of cold
approaches four. I will never be as cold now as I will in the future.
The future of cold is infinite. The future of heat is the future of
cold. The bookstores are infinite and so are never full except in
September...*
|image0|

.. |image0| image:: https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/tracker/697344570467959391-3716971522912019646?l=mathfou.blogspot.com
